alright let's go over windows subsystem
for Linux version 2 it's the thing I'm
most excited about with the recent
update from Windows I absolutely think
this right here it's kind of cool
especially if I'm using a Windows box as
a Linux user that uses it all the time
and I love its workflow I love a lot of
the things in Linux especially when it
comes to like terminal and just editing
and just getting around it's just far
easier for me in Linux now than it is in
Windows even though I've used Windows
for 20 years but needless to say you
need to do some things to get this
enabled and Microsoft didn't exactly
make it easy for you so I wanted to
break down some of the misinformation
out there and then also just kind of
teach you all the prerequisites you need
to understand about it
how to convert from like WSL one to two
and just general installation tips so
with that let's get into it all right
before we get started
the balloons it's my daughter's birthday
don't worry by the time this video comes
out yeah these balloons should be gone
but if not it's not like my daughter
watches these videos so I think I'm safe
and number two I do live stream over on
Twitch I did cut back for the summer I'm
only doing one day a week on Monday
mornings so if you'd like to catch me
live please head over to the twitch
stream check me out over there and if
not you can always head over to chris
titus tech streams on youtube and check
it out afterwards but with all that said
let's dive into WSL 2 I'm gonna go ahead
and pop over onto my desktop real fast
alright so on the desktop here there's
some cool stuff we have going I went
ahead and created a cheat sheet for
everyone and this cheat sheet is
actually a pretty much a one-to-one copy
from Microsoft
I left the source article where I pulled
all this from the reason why I made this
is one to add to it in number two I
don't trust microsoft they'd like to
change their URLs and I've been burned
so many times in the past when I said
hey here's the link to this article
and then people are like hey the links
broken and it's because Microsoft
changed their site for the 10,000th time
so I went ahead and left the source
article so if you don't want to use my
website you can use theirs but I went
ahead and made a copy paste feature so
you can easily get in here copy all the
commands you need paste them in and
enable these things now I'm not gonna go
exactly over my guide here because I
want to teach you the way through the
GUI in case you don't want to use
PowerShell but I use PowerShell for my
guide as it's just a little faster so
with that let's pop over to Windows and
I'm just gonna go ahead and pull my
Windows machine right up here and we're
gonna just look at this now this is a
easy to do I'm gonna go start run and
then go app WisDOT CPL there's two
things you need to do when using wsl in
Windows and then we're gonna type turn
on Windows Features scroll all the way
down and there's gonna be two things you
need first one is windows subsystem for
Linux and then the second thing is
virtual machine platform and you might
be wondering wait a second windows
subsystem for Linux
well that's WS l1 it's required for WSL
too but for WS l - you need virtual
machine platform to really get the
benefits of this so with that done I'm
gonna go ahead and cancel out of this
because both of those already installed
and then the next thing we need to do is
go into our PowerShell from our
PowerShell we can type WS l this is the
command that basically shows you
everything you need to do for windows
subsystem for linux just typing the
command itself launches directly into
windows subsystem for linux and as you
see I've got some shenanigans going on
as far as launching xfce and other
things that's for a future video as I'm
integrating Linux desktop and Windows
desktop and kind of making it to where I
can do some really crazy things and like
but I get sidetracked too easily back
back to work here let's exit w SL will
just exit and now that we're back here
we can actually type WS l - - help and
this will actually kind of give you a
help guide to how to do it
so let's go fullscreen here and the big
things here is just kind of one to get a
list of your actual things we can just
do WSL - list but this only just says
hey what's installed right now the
default is Ubuntu 20 but if you add
multiples in here it would show those as
well and it would also show the default
with a little - default but to actually
see what's going on and see what version
your distributions are on you'll go WS L
- L - V for verbose so - L for list - V
for verbose
it shows you what versions you're on so
if you've already used windows subsystem
for linux there's a good chance it's
already on version one and not version
two because it will not auto upgrade so
if you need to do that there's a couple
things on WS l after you get it
installed you've launched it you've
you've got everything going well coming
back into the website here first thing
you want to do is set the default
version
WSL set default version two and then
install your system now if you installed
it after doing the defaults it goes
ahead and of course defaults to version
two however if not down here at the
bottom you can actually go into setting
the version so you would just go WSL set
version the distribution name and then
the version number so let me go ahead
and practice that for you so in this
instance it would be WS l - - set
version and then this is where you go
just like the bun - - 2004 so you go a
bun - - 20 - oh 4 and then you'd put the
version so if I wanted to downgrade this
and use version 1 I could put 1 here but
obviously we want to do number 2 number
2 gives you literally 20 X performance
and it's way more stable so wsl version
2 is lightyears ahead of version 1 so
you type this it'll say hey the
conversion is process please wait a few
minutes it does take a couple minutes
for this conversion to take place but
obviously since it's already on the
requested version it says it's on that
version but wait for it to be finished
and then you can always do that listing
command to see what's going on I like to
always do list verbose or that - L - V
because it'll tell me is it running what
version it is
and how many Linux distributions I have
on this system so really important to
know this is kind of how to set up WSL
obviously I've set up a couple extra
things with it
in probably the next video I'll go over
how to actually utilize WSL in a service
environment to where you can launch
full-blown desktop environments you can
launch pretty much anything you want
from terminal so I can interface
directly with it
from I think PowerShell I think it can
actually take commands from it let's see
so if you type Bash from PowerShell then
you can do like gvm it'll actually
launch into certain things I've set it
up in a certain way to where I can
always have my Linux going and I can
access any Linux tool I want directly
from here which is kind of neat a very
cool tool to have I'll go into accesses
in this I'm trying to make it more
cohesive with like a terminal emulator
and all kinds of just cool ways to do it
have I said cool enough I think I think
I have so we're gonna move on from here
so that's getting started with WSL - I
think this is really key for a lot of
reasons for one accessing ext4 drives
it's been kind of an Achilles heels of
Windows trying to access that dual boot
I dual boot all the time into Linux
obviously as I'm using Linux mainly as
my domain daily driver I have Windows
around for some gaming and just
miscellaneous compatibility things but
for the most part I'm always in Linux
and having wsl to there when I'm in
Linux kind of is a nice feature to have
I'll go more into integration and
actually launching into the services and
and integrating it further into Windows
2 where Linux is kind of like its core
you can actually utilize almost
everything you possibly want in Linux on
Windows without having to really lose
things although I you know I still won't
make it as a daily driver because it's
windows come on so with all that said
let me know your thoughts down in the
comments as I'm always interested to see
what everybody is coming up with a lot
of the things I'm doing I did during a
live stream and I gotta say I'm really
excited about kind of like this
Franken system I'm making I'm gonna call
it I think who bun dough's that's a
horrible name still working shop
workshop in the title but be looking for
and with that a big shout out to all my
patrons without you I couldn't make
videos like this one and I'll see you in
the next one
